<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cwfiltbn" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Listeners</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>filters<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Filters are new in the <cite>Sun Microsystems Java Servlet
2.3 Specification</cite>. They enable you to intercept to intercept a
request before it reaches a resource. In other words, a filter gives you
access to the HttpServletRequest and the HttpServletResponse objects
before they are passed on to a servlet.</p>
<p>Filters can be very useful. For example, you can write a filter
that records all incoming requests and logs the IP addresses of the
computers from which the requests originate. You also can use a filter
as an encryption and decryption device. Other uses include user
authentication, data compression, user input validation, and so on.</p>
<p>You also can put a set of filters in a chain. The first filter in
the chain will be called first and then pass control to the second
filter, and so on. Filter chaining ensures that you can write a filter
that does a specific task but adds some functionality in another filter.</p>
<p>When writing a filter, you basically deal with the
following three interfaces in the javax.servlet package:
<ul>
	<li><b>javax.servlet.Filter:</b> represents the
	life-cycle of the filter.</li>
	<li><b>javax.servlet.FilterConfig:</b> represents the
	configuration of the filter.</li>
	<li><b>javax.servlet.FilterChain:</b> object provided by
	the servlet container to the developer giving a view into the
	invocation chain of a filtered request for a resource.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>For more information about filters, refer to the <cite>Sun Microsystems <tm
tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> Servlet
2.3 Specification</cite> at <codeph>java.sun.com/products/servlet/download.html</codeph>.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
