<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cwwedtvw" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Workbench integration with Web editors</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="cwwedtvw|1|Webeditorsworkbenchintegration" status="changed">workbench<indexterm>Web
editors</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>There are several editors for use in various contexts for various file
types. To edit a file using its default editor, double-click on the file name
in the Project Explorer view, or right-click on the file and select <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol>.
The editor that is last used to open a file becomes the default for that particular
file. To edit the file with a different editor, right-click on the file and
select <uicontrol>Open With</uicontrol> to choose from a list of available
editors.</p>
<p>In the workbench, you can associate file-name extensions for different
types of resources with various editors. A resource extension can have more
than one editor associated with it; the last editor used for a particular
extension type is indicated by a black dot before it in the <uicontrol>Open
With</uicontrol> pop-up menu. You can associate extensions that are known
to the workbench with additional editors, by using the <b>File Associations</b> preferences
page, accessed by selecting <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Workbench</uicontrol><uicontrol>File Associations</uicontrol></menucascade>.</p>
<p>The Properties view provides general capabilities that are advantageous
to Web editor users. <dl><dlentry>
<dt>Properties view</dt>
<dd>The Properties view (<menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Show
View</uicontrol><uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol></menucascade>) contains
a list of attributes and editable attribute values. For example, when you
select an image tag <uicontrol>img</uicontrol> , the width and height values
appear for editing. In addition, any other attributes allowed by the standard
specified in the DOCTYPE for the file (such as the HTML 4.0.1 DTD) are listed.
When you click the value column of a property, you can select from among the
list of available attribute values. <p>The pop-up menu in the Properties view
enables you to undo, cut, copy, paste, delete, and select all. The options
that are available at a given time depends on where the cursor is located
when you right-click to display the pop-up menu. To see the pop-up menu that
contains undo, cut, and so on, the property value field must be active. (This
is accomplished by selecting the property and then selecting its value.) Otherwise,
the pop-up menu will contain different options.</p> <p>Use the <uicontrol>Restore
Default Value</uicontrol> button to change any value back to the default setting.</p> <p>After
you are in the Properties view, you can modify other property values for specific
tags. To edit another tag using the Properties view, move the cursor within
the editing area of the Source page or Design page to the tag you want to
edit. The appropriate properties and values are displayed in the Properties
view.</p></dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
