<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tjcrehtm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating HTML and XHTML files and framesets</title>
<shortdesc>You can use the New HTML File wizard to create HTML and XHTML files
and framesets. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>framesets<indexterm>creating</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>HTML<indexterm>creating files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>WML<indexterm>creating files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XHTML<indexterm>creating files</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context> </context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Create a static or a dynamic Web project if you have not already
done so.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Project Explorer, expand your project and right click on
your WebContent folder or on a subfolder under WebContent.  </cmd><info>Note
that if you choose any other folder in which to create the HTML file, then
it will not be included in the WAR file that is deployed to the server. In
addition, link validation will not encompass files that are not under the
WebContent folder.</info></step>
<step><cmd>From the context menu, select <menucascade><uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Other</uicontrol><uicontrol>Web</uicontrol><uicontrol>HTML</uicontrol>
</menucascade>.</cmd><stepresult>The New HTML Page window appears with your
folder selected</stepresult></step>
<step><cmd>Type a file name into the File name field, making sure you include
an html extension (html, htm, xhtml, htpl, wml, shtml, or shtm) in the file
name.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd> You have several options for proceeding:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice>To accept the defaults associated with a new HTML file, select <uicontrol>Finish.</uicontrol></choice>
<choice> To use a template file for the initial content of your HTML page,
select <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. The Select HTML Template window appears.
Select the <uicontrol>Use HTML Template</uicontrol> check box, and then select
one of the sample templates. You can also select the <uicontrol>HTML Templates</uicontrol> link
to add or remove HTML templates to your list of templates.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
