<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tjcrejsp" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating JavaServer Pages (JSP) files</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>JSP files<indexterm>creating</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>Most types of JSP files can be created using the New JSP File
wizard. To create a basic JSP file using the wizard, complete the following
steps: </p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Create a dynamic Web project if you have not already done so.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the Project Explorer, expand your project and right click on
your WebContent folder or on a subfolder under WebContent.  Note that if you
choose any other folder in which to create the JSP, then it will not be included
in the WAR file that is deployed to the server. In addition, link validation
will not encompass files that are not under the WebContent folder.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>From the context menu, select <menucascade><uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>JSP</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd><stepresult>The New Java Server
Page window appears with your folder selected</stepresult></step>
<step><cmd>Type a file name into the File name field, making sure you include
the jsp extension (jsp, jsv, jtpl, or jspx) in the file name.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd> You have several options for proceeding:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice>To accept the defaults associated with a new JSP file, select <uicontrol>Finish.</uicontrol></choice>
<choice>To link to a file in the file system and specify path variables, select <uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol> and
then make your selections using the <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Variables</uicontrol> buttons. </choice>
<choice> To use a template file for the initial content of your JSP page,
select <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. The Select JSP Template window appears.
Select the <uicontrol>Use JSP Template</uicontrol> check box, and then select
one of the sample templates. You can also select the <uicontrol>JSP Templates</uicontrol> link
to add or remove JSP templates to your list of templates.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
