<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="twprjset" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Setting Web project properties</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Web projects<indexterm>properties settings</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context> <p>There are many Web project properties that you can set that affect
the phases in the lifecycle of your project and its dependencies on other
Web resources and Web development processes. You might want to verify or update
these properties after you have updated an existing project or have imported
Web resources into a project .</p><p>To view or set Web project properties,
do the following: </p> </context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Right-click on a Web Project, and from the pop-up menu select <ph><uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol></ph>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Select a property type in the left pane of the Properties dialog
to view or update properties in the Web project. For each property, you can
apply changes and modify default settings. Based on whether you have a static
or a dynamic Web project, the following property types are available:</cmd>
<info><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Info</dt>
<dd>Provides general information about project type, location, and modification
status. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>BeanInfo Path (Dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>If you select the Enable Beaninfo Introspection on this project, you can
specify the contents and order of <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> Bean search paths to provide Bean information
relevant to the project. You can add, remove, and reorder (using the <ph>Up</ph> and <ph>Down</ph> buttons)
the packages used to include Bean information.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Builders</dt>
<dd>Add, remove, or reorder external tools in the build order. When you select <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> to
create a new external tool to the list, the New External Tool wizard opens,
so that you can define the new build tool.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Java EE (Dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>Identify Web level specification and modify context root and Web content
folder name</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> Build
Path (Dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>View or change the information about the <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> build path that you supplied when creating
the project using the <ph>Create a DynamicWeb Project</ph> wizard. Whenever
the Web project is rebuilt, any class files that are created or updated will
be output to the specified output folder. <note>A library entry on the <tm
tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> build
path will remain there unless the actual JAR file is deleted from the WEB-INF/lib
folder. If you remove a library path entry but not the JAR file, the library
entry will be re-added to the path automatically.</note></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> Compiler
(Dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>Define whether to use workspace settings or project setting for compiling <tm
tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> code,
including settings for Problems, Style, Compliance and Classfiles, and Build
Path.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Javadoc Location (Dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>Define a default location (URL) for any Javadoc available to the project.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> JAR
Dependencies (Dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>Define and reorder JAR dependencies for the project. Note that these dependencies
may differ based on a Web project's association with multiple Enterprise application
projects.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>JSP Task Tags</dt>
<dd>Add, edit, or remove JSP task tags and assign tag priorities. These "to
do" items appear in your Tasks view.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>JSP Compilation</dt>
<dd>Specify when in the build process a JSP should be set to compile</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>JSP Fragment (dynamic Web project only)</dt>
<dd>Define default encoding, page directive, and content type values for JSP
fragment documents in the web project.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Links Validation/Refactoring</dt>
<dd>Define project-level link management and validation settings. These settings
override corresponding settings in the Workbench Preference settings for the
current project.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Project References</dt>
<dd>Reference other Web projects that exist on your workbench workspace.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Server</dt>
<dd>Select the server instance used to perform necessary development, test,
and publishing functions for the project.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Validation</dt>
<dd>Specify which validators should run for the project, and whether validation
should occur automatically when resource updates are written to the project.
The available validators are based on the types of resources in your project.
By default, validators are automatically run when you save resources in a
Web project. If you do not want validators to run automatically when you save
these resources, enable the <uicontrol>Override validation</uicontrol> preferences
option and disable the <uicontrol>Run validation automatically when you save
changes to resources</uicontrol> option. <note>You can also  disable automatic
validation (and builds) for all projects by disabling <uicontrol>Perform build
 automatically on resource modification</uicontrol> from the <uicontrol>Workbench</uicontrol> properties.
If  you disable automatic builds, you can manually  run a build (and validation)
by selecting  <menucascade><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol><uicontrol>Rebuild
project</uicontrol></menucascade>.</note></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Web Content Settings</dt>
<dd>Provide any applicable Web content settings for a Web project. You can
specify the document type, CSS profile, and target device.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Web Project Features</dt>
<dd>Select the features you want to be enabled for your Web project, such
as Page Template support.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></info></step>
<step><cmd>When you have completed updates to Web project settings, click <ph><uicontrol>OK</uicontrol></ph> to
save and close the Properties dialog.</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
