<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="taddimpt" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding import elements</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding import elements</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>If your schemas are large, you might choose to divide their
content among several schema documents to make them easier to maintain,
reuse, and read. You can use an <codeph>import</codeph> element to
bring in definitions and declarations from an imported schema into
the current schema. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>import elements</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>import elements</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>You can import a schema from a different namespace than
the current schema. You can add multiple import elements to an XML
schema; however, an imported schema cannot have the same namespace
or prefix as another imported schema.</p><p>The following instructions
were written for the Resource perspective, but they will also work
in many other perspectives.</p><p>To add an import element, complete
the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Open your XML schema in the XML schema editor.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click in the <b>Directives</b> section
and click <uicontrol>Add Import</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Select XML schema file wizard, you can import an
XML schema that is located in your workspace or you can import a schema
from an HTTP Web address.</cmd>
<choices>
<choice>If you want to import an XML schema located in your workspace:<ol>
<li>Select <uicontrol>Workbench projects</uicontrol> and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
<li>Select the schema that you want to import and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
</ol></choice>
<choice>If you want to import an XML schema located at an HTTP Web
address:<ol>
<li>Select <uicontrol>HTTP</uicontrol> and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
<li>Type the URL of the XML schema and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.<note>A
local copy of the schema is not stored in your workspace. If you validate
your schema, the schema's contents are checked from the URL that you
specify.</note></li>
</ol></choice>
</choices>
</step>
<step importance="optional"><cmd>Use the Properties view to define
additional properties for your import element.</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>If you want to add a unique prefix for this namespace,
click the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab and type the prefix in
the <uicontrol>Prefix</uicontrol> field.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if
you want to provide any information about this import element. </cmd>
<info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page is used for human
readable material, such as a description.</info></substep>
<substep><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab if you
want to add application information elements to your annotations of
schema components. </cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> page
allows you to specify the schema and add XML content to your annotations.</info>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
</steps><?Pub Caret1?>
<result><p>Once you have added an import element to your XML schema,
when you define new elements, attributes, complex types, or simple
types where you can specify type information, any declarations from
the included schema will be available in the <uicontrol>Type</uicontrol> list
for the element, attribute, complex or simple type.</p></result>
<postreq></postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003756?>
