<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="taddelmr" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding element references</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding element references</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>An element reference provides a reference to a global element.
A declaration that references a global element enables the referenced global
element to appear in the instance document in the context of the referencing
declaration.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>adding<indexterm>element
references</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>element
references<indexterm>adding</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>XML
schema files<indexterm>adding<indexterm>element references</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>element references<indexterm>adding</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource perspective,
but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To add an element
reference, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Graph view, right-click the content model you want to work
with and click <uicontrol>Add Element Ref</uicontrol>.</cmd><stepresult>If
no global element is defined in the document, a new global element is created
for you, and the element reference will point to it.</stepresult></step>
<step><cmd>Select the element reference. You can specify the following values
for an element reference:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice><uicontrol>name</uicontrol>. Click the name of the element reference
in the Graph view. Enter the name of the element reference.</choice>
<choice><uicontrol>type</uicontrol>. Click the element reference type in the
Graph view. Select a type from the menu, or select <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> for
more options.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
<step><cmd>(Optional) Select the appropriate value in the <uicontrol>MinOccurs</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
<info>This is the number of times the global element referenced can appear
in an instance document. If you want the element to be optional, select <uicontrol>0</uicontrol>.
Otherwise, select <uicontrol>1</uicontrol>. </info></step>
<step><cmd>(Optional) Select the appropriate value in the <uicontrol>MaxOccurs</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
<info>This is the maximum number of times the global element referenced can
appear. You can select <uicontrol>unbounded</uicontrol> to indicate there
is no maximum number of occurrences.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if you want
to provide any information about this element reference.</cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page
is used for human readable material, such as a description, and the <uicontrol>App
Info</uicontrol> page can be used to provide information for applications.</info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
