<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="taddelm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding elements</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding elements</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Elements are fundamental building blocks in XML. Element declarations
provide value constraints, and a description that can be used for validation,
as well as establishing constraining relationships between related elements
and attributes, and controlling substitution of elements.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>adding<indexterm>elements</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>elements<indexterm>adding</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>adding<indexterm>elements</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>elements<indexterm>adding</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource perspective,
but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To add an element,
follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>To add an element, in the Graph view, right-click the content model
you want to work with and click <uicontrol>Add Element</uicontrol>.</cmd>
<info>The element appears attached to the content model in the Graph view.</info>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Select the element, and in the Graph view, click the current
(default) name of the element, which puts you in direct editing mode, then
type the new <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> and hit enter.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>In the Graph view, click the current (default) element type
and select a type from the menu. Alternately, you can select browse to invoke
the Set Type dialog for more options.</cmd><info>The Set Type dialog lists
all built-in and user-defined types currently available. You can change the <uicontrol>Scope</uicontrol> of
the list by selecting one of the following options:<ul>
<li><uicontrol>Workspace</uicontrol>. Lists all of the types available in
your workspace. </li>
<li><uicontrol>Enclosing Project</uicontrol>. Lists all of the types available
in the project that contains your file. </li>
<li>(Default) <uicontrol>Current Resource</uicontrol>. List all of the types
available in your current file.</li>
<li><uicontrol>Working Sets</uicontrol>. List all the types available within
the selected working set.</li>
</ul></info></substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step><cmd>(Optional) In the Properties view, select the appropriate value
in the <uicontrol>MinOccurs</uicontrol> field.</cmd><info>This is the minimum
number of times the element can appear in an instance document. If you want
the element to be optional, select <uicontrol>0</uicontrol>. Otherwise, select <uicontrol>1</uicontrol>. </info>
</step>
<step><cmd>(Optional) Select the appropriate value in the <uicontrol>MaxOccurs</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
<info>This is the maximum number of times the element can appear in an instance
document. You can select <uicontrol>unbounded</uicontrol> to indicate there
is no maximum number of occurrences.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if you want
to provide any information about this element.</cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page
is used for human readable material, such as a description, and the <uicontrol>App
Info</uicontrol> page can be used to provide information for applications.</info>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>You can add a content model to an element, which is the representation
of any data that can be contained inside the element. For more information
about working with content models, refer to the related tasks.</postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
