<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="taddcmxt" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding complex types</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding complex types</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>A complex type allows elements in its content and can carry
attributes. Complex types can be used to help determine the appropriate
content for any instance documents generated from or associated with
your XML schema.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>complex types</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>complex types</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>You can add as many complex types as you want to an XML
schema.</p><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource
perspective, but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To
add a complex type to an XML schema, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Open your XML schema in the XML schema editor.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Right-click the Types category in the Design view, click <uicontrol>Add
Complex Type</uicontrol> and type the name for the complex type. If
you need to change the name later, you can edit it in the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab
of the Properties view.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>To set a base type for the complex type, right-click the
type in the Design view and click <uicontrol>Set Base Type</uicontrol>. </cmd>
<info>You can either set a base type for your complex type, or you
can add a content model to it (which represents any data that can
be contained inside an element), but you cannot do both. For more
information about content models, see <xref href="taddcmod.dita"
scope="peer">Adding content models</xref>.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Your new type can be derived from its base type either
by extension or restriction. By default, the derivation is set to
extension. To change how the type is derived, click the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab
in the Properties view and select <uicontrol>restriction</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>extension</uicontrol> from
the <uicontrol>Inherited By</uicontrol> list. </cmd></step>
<step><cmd>To add attributes to your complex type, in the Design view,
right-click your complex type and select <uicontrol>Add Attribute</uicontrol>. </cmd>
<info>An attribute associates an attribute name with a specific type
and value. </info><?Pub Caret1?>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>To set the name of the attribute, in the Design view,
double-click the name of the attribute and type the name.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep><cmd>To set the type of the attribute, in the Design view,
double-click the attribute type and then select the new type from
the list.</cmd></substep>
</substeps>
<info>For information about adding attributes, attribute references,
and <userinput>any</userinput> attributes, see <xref href="taddagrp.dita"
scope="peer">Adding attribute groups</xref>.</info></step>
<step><cmd>You can further define your complex type in the Properties
view:</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if
you want to provide any information about this complex type. </cmd>
<info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page is used for human
readable material, such as a description.</info></substep>
<substep><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab if you
want to add application information elements to your annotations of
schema components. </cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> page
allows you to specify the schema and add XML content to your annotations.</info>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003841?>
