<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="tedtschm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Editing XML schema properties</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Editing XML schema properties</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>After you create an XML schema, you can edit its various
properties, such as its namespace and prefix.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>XML schema properties</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>editing properties</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p><?Pub Caret1?>The following instructions were written
for the Resource perspective, but they will also work in many other
perspectives.</p><p>To edit an XML schema's properties, complete the
following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Create a new XML schema or double-click an existing schema
in the Navigator view.</cmd><info> It will automatically open in the
XML schema editor.</info></step>
<step><cmd>In the Outline view, click <uicontrol>Directives</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, click the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>You can change the <uicontrol>Prefix</uicontrol> associated
with the current namespace. </cmd><info>Element and attribute names
that are associated with this namespace will be prefixed with this
value.</info></step>
<step><cmd>You can also edit the <uicontrol>Target namespace</uicontrol> for
this schema.</cmd><info> A namespace is a URI that provides a unique
name to associate with all the elements and type definitions in a
schema.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if you
want to provide any information about this XML schema. </cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page
is used for human readable material, such as a description.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab if you
want to add application information elements to your annotations of
schema components. </cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> page
allows you to specify the schema and add XML content to your annotations.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol> tab if you want
to define the following additional schema attributes: </cmd><info><ul>
<li><uicontrol>Prefix for elements</uicontrol> (elementFormDefault)</li>
<li><uicontrol>Prefix for attributes</uicontrol> (attributeFormDefault)</li>
<li><uicontrol>Block default</uicontrol> (blockDefault)</li>
<li><uicontrol>Final default</uicontrol> (finalDefault)</li>
</ul></info></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002780?>
