<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<task id="tvaldtd" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Validating DTDs</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Validating DTDs</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Validating a DTD file lets you verify that it is well formed
and does not contain any errors.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DTD<indexterm>validating</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource
perspective, but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To
validate a DTD, right-click the DTD in the Navigator view and click <menucascade>
<uicontrol>Validate</uicontrol></menucascade>. A dialog opens, indicating
if the DTD file was successfully validated or not. If the file is
invalid, any errors will appear in the Problems view.<?Pub Caret?></p></context>
<result><note>If you receive an error message indicating that the
Problems view is full, you can increase the number of error messages
allowed in the view. Click <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol></menucascade> and select <menucascade>
<uicontrol>General</uicontrol><uicontrol>Markers</uicontrol>
</menucascade>. On this preferences page you can increase or decrease
the number of visible items in the problems view. </note><p>You can
set up a project's properties so that different types of project resources
are automatically validated when you save them. Right click on the
project, click <uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol>, and select <uicontrol>Validation</uicontrol>.
Any validators you can run against your&nbsp;project will be listed
in the Validation page.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.j2ee.doc.user/topics/tjval.dita"
scope="peer"><linktext>Validating code in enterprise applications</linktext>
<desc>General validation information</desc>
</link>
</related-links>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002105?>
