<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cxmlsced" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>XML schema editor</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>XML schema editor</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>This product provides an XML schema editor for creating, viewing,
and validating XML schemas. XML schemas are a formal specification of element
names that indicates which elements are allowed in an XML file, and in which
combinations. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>A schema is functionally equivalent to a DTD, but is written in XML. A
schema also provides extended functionality such as data typing, inheritance,
and presentation rules.</p>
<p>For more information on XML schema, see the following:</p>
<ul>
<li> <xref format="html" href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/" scope="external">http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/</xref> </li>
<li> <xref format="html" href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1/" scope="external">http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1/</xref> </li>
<li> <xref format="html" href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/" scope="external">http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/</xref> </li>
</ul>
<p>Using the XML schema editor, you can:</p>
<ul>
<li>Create and delete XML schema components such as complex types, simple
types, elements, attributes, attribute groups, and groups.</li>
<li>Edit XML schemas.</li>
<li>Import existing XML schemas for structured viewing.</li>
</ul>
<p>The XML Schema specification from the W3C Web site is used for validation.</p>
<section><title>XML schema editor views - Design, Outline, Properties, and
Source</title>There are four main views you can work with in the XML schema
editor:<ul>
<li>Design - the Design view provides a graphical way to edit your schema</li>
<li>Outline - the Outline view shows you the main components in your XML schema.
You can use this view to add and remove certain components.</li>
<li>Properties - the Properties view enables you to edit the properties of
your XML schema components</li>
<li>Source - the Source view enables you to edit your source code directly</li>
</ul></section>
<section><title>Status of the XML schema</title><p></p><p>Three status indicators
for the schema are available. They are in the bottom right corner:</p><ul>
<li> <uicontrol>Writable</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Read Only</uicontrol>. </li>
<li> (Source view only) <uicontrol>Smart Insert</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Overwrite</uicontrol>.
To toggle between these modes, press the <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> button
on your keyboard.</li>
<li> Line and column number (displayed in the format <?Pub Caret?><userinput>column
# : line #</userinput>)</li>
</ul></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002906?>
