<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="taddelmr" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding element references</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding element references</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>An element reference provides a reference to a global element.
A declaration that references a global element enables the referenced global
element to appear in the instance document in the context of the referencing
declaration.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>element references</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>element references</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource perspective,
but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To add an element
reference, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view, right-click the content model (sequence, choice,
or all element) you want to work with and click <uicontrol>Add Element Ref</uicontrol>.</cmd>
<stepresult>If no global element is defined in the document, a new global
element is created for you, and the element reference will point to it.</stepresult>
</step>
<step><cmd>Select the element reference. To specify values for an element
reference:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice>Click the name of the element reference in the Design view. Enter
the name of the element reference.</choice>
<choice>Click the element reference type in the Design view. Select a type
from the menu, or select <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> for more options.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
<step><cmd>(Optional) Select the appropriate value in the <uicontrol>Minimum
Occurrence</uicontrol> field.</cmd><info>This is the number of times the global
element referenced can appear in an instance document. If you want the element
to be optional, select <uicontrol>0</uicontrol>. Otherwise, select <uicontrol>1</uicontrol>. </info>
</step>
<step><cmd>(Optional) Select the appropriate value in the <uicontrol>Maximum
Occurrence<?Pub Caret?></uicontrol> field.</cmd><info>This is the maximum
number of times the global element referenced can appear. You can select <uicontrol>unbounded</uicontrol> to
indicate there is no maximum number of occurrences.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if you want
to provide any information about this element reference.</cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page
is used for human readable material, such as a description.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab if you want to
add application information elements to your annotations of schema components.</cmd>
<info>The <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> page allows you to specify the
schema and add XML content to your annotations.</info></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003039?>
