<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="taddnot" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding notations</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding notations</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>A notation is a means of associating a binary description with
an entity or attribute. The most common uses of notations are to include familiar
types of binary references, such as GIFs and JPGs, in an XML file.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema editor<indexterm>notations</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>notations</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>For example, you are making a catalogue of your clothing and want
to include an image of one of your shirts. You would have to create a notation
like this:  <userinput>&lt;notation name="My_Shirt" system="GIF">&lt;/notation></userinput> which
defines a notation for a GIF image.</p><p>The following instructions were
written for the Resource perspective, but they will also work in many other
perspectives.</p><p>To create a notation, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Open your XML schema in the XML schema editor.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Outline view, right-click your XML schema and click <uicontrol>Add
Notation</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the Properties view, type the name of the notation in the <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Other</uicontrol> tab.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <uicontrol>public</uicontrol> field, type a public identifier.</cmd>
<info> This is optional if you enter a value in the <uicontrol>system</uicontrol> field.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the <uicontrol>system</uicontrol> field, type a URI reference.</cmd>
<info> This is optional if you enter a value in the <uicontrol>public</uicontrol> field.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> tab if you want
to provide any information about this notation.</cmd><info>The <uicontrol>Documentation</uicontrol> page
is used for human readable material, such as a description. <uicontrol>App
Info</uicontrol> page can be used to provide information for applications.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab if you want to
add application information elements to your annotations of schema components.</cmd>
<info>The <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> page allows you to specify the
schema and add XML content to your annotations.</info></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002959?>
