<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tedtpref" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Editing XML schema file preferences</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Editing XML schema file preferences</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can set various preferences for XML schema files such as the
default target namespace and XML Schema language constructs prefix used.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>editing preferences</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>preferences<indexterm>XML schema files</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To define XML schema file preferences, complete the following
steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Click <menucascade><uicontrol>Window > Preferences</uicontrol>
</menucascade> and select <menucascade><uicontrol>XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>XML
Schema Files</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Qualify XML schema language constructs</uicontrol> check
box if you want a prefix applied to all XML Schema language constructs in
your XML schema.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <uicontrol>XML schema language constructs prefix</uicontrol> field,
type the prefix you want applied to XML Schema language constructs in your
XML schema.</cmd><info>The prefix <uicontrol>xsd</uicontrol> is used by convention
to denote the XML Schema namespace, but any prefix can be used. The purpose
of the association is to identify the elements and simple types as belonging
to the vocabulary of the XML Schema language rather than the vocabulary of
the schema author.  <note>This prefix will not appear in any schemas that
currently exist - it will only appear in new schemas you create after you
type the prefix and click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol>. Any schemas that already
exist will have the prefix specified in the schema applied to the XML schema
language constructs.</note></info></step>
<step><cmd>You can change the <uicontrol>Default Target Namespace</uicontrol> value.</cmd>
<info>The value specified in this field will be the default target namespace
for any new XML schema files created.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result></result>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002381?>
