<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tvdtschm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Validating XML schemas</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Validating XML schemas</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Validating an XML schema determines whether the current state of
the XML schema file is semantically valid. Any errors will be displayed in
the Problems view.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML schema files<indexterm>validating</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource perspective,
but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To validate an XML
schema, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Right-click your file in the Navigator view and click <uicontrol>Validate</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd> If validation was not successful, you can refer to the Problems
view to see what problems were logged. </cmd><info> <note> If you receive
an error message indicating that the Problems view is full, you can increase
the number of error messages allowed by clicking <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol></menucascade> and selecting <menucascade>
<uicontrol>General</uicontrol><uicontrol>Markers</uicontrol></menucascade>.
Select the <uicontrol>Use marker limits</uicontrol> check box and change the
number in the <uicontrol>Limit visible items per group</uicontrol> field.</note></info>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p>The XML schema support in the XML schema editor is based on the
W3C XML Schema Recommendation Specification. The XML Schema specifications
XML Schema Part 1: Structures and XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes from the W3C
Web site are used for validation.</p><p>Certain error messages contain a reference
to the schema constraints listed in Appendix C of the XML Schema Part 1: Structures
document. Each constraint has a unique name that will be referenced in the
error message. For example, if you receive an error message with this text: <systemoutput>ct-props-correct</systemoutput> and
you searched in the Structure document for the text, you would find that it
is for the section "Schema Component Constraint: Complex Type Definition Properties
Correct". </p><p>You can set up a project's properties so that different types
of project resources are automatically validated when you save them (this
is set for all resources by default). From a project's pop-up menu select <uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol>,
then select <uicontrol>Validation</uicontrol>. Any validators you can run
against your project will be listed in the Validation page.</p></result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="../../org.eclipse.jst.j2ee.doc.user/topics/tjval.dita" scope="peer">
<linktext>Validating code in enterprise applications</linktext>
<desc>General validation information</desc>
</link>
<link href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1" scope="external"><linktext>XML
Schema Part 1: Structures</linktext>
<desc>See the W3C Web site for more information on XML Schema specifications</desc>
</link>
<link href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2" scope="external"><linktext>XML
Schema Part 2: Datatypes</linktext>
<desc>See the W3C Web site for more information on XML Schema specifications</desc>
</link>
</related-links>
</task>
