<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="twmacro" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Working with DTD templates</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Working with DTD templates</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Templates are a chunk of predefined code that you can insert into
a DTD file when it is created. You may find a template useful when you have
a certain piece of code you want to reuse several times, and you do not want
to write it out every time.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DTD<indexterm>creating templates</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>templates<indexterm>DTD</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To create a new DTD template follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Click <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Web and XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>DTD Files</uicontrol><uicontrol>DTD
Templates</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> if you want to create a completely
new template.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Supply a new template <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Specify the <uicontrol>Context</uicontrol> for the template.</cmd>
<info>This is the context in which the template is available in the proposal
list when content assist is requested. </info></step>
<step><cmd>Specify the <uicontrol>Pattern</uicontrol> for your template using
the appropriate tags, attributes, or attribute values to be inserted by content
assist.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>If you want to insert a variable, click the <uicontrol>Insert Variable</uicontrol> button
and select the variable to be inserted. </cmd><info>For example, the <b>date</b> variable
indicates the current date will be inserted. </info></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> and then <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to
save your changes.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<postreq>You can edit, remove, import, or export a template by using the same
preferences page. <p>If you have a template that you do not want to remove,
but you no longer want the template to appear in the DTD templates list when
you create a file, go to the<b> DTD Templates</b> preferences page and clear
its check box.</p></postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
