<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tjprefs" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Defining HTML file preferences</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="tjprefs|1|DOCTYPEdeclarationsaddingautomatically"
status="new">DOCTYPE declarations<indexterm>adding automatically</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm keyref="tjprefs|2|HTMLfileseditingpreferences" status="changed">HTML<indexterm>editing
preferences</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context> <p><indexterm>DOCTYPE declarations<indexterm>adding automatically</indexterm></indexterm> <indexterm>HTML
files<indexterm>editing preferences</indexterm></indexterm> To define general
HTML file preferences, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>From the <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> menu, select <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>In the Preferences window, select <menucascade><uicontrol>Web and
XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>HTML Files</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Specify the following settings related to saving an HTML source
page. The defaults are recommended and should only be modified when there
is a specific reason to do so. </cmd><info><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Line delimiter</dt>
<dd>Specify the appropriate EOL character for your environment. The default
is <uicontrol>No translation</uicontrol>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Add this suffix</dt>
<dd>Specify a default suffix for files that you save. The default is <userinput>html</userinput>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Encoding, IANA, (Use workbench default)</dt>
<dd>Specify the default encoding (code page) for files that you create. The
default is the Workbench's encoding preference. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Insert DOCTYPE declaration</dt>
<dd>Optionally, you can automatically add a DOCTYPE declaration to HTML files.
The default DOCTYPE is determined when you create an HTML file or a JSP file
using a wizard. If you add the DOCTYPE declaration, you should include at
least a Public ID specification, and, optionally, a System ID.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Insert GENERATOR with META tag</dt>
<dd>Optionally, select the check box to specify GENERATOR in a META tag in
the HTML file header.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Loading files</dt>
<dd>Specify the default encoding (code page) for files that you open. The
default is the Workbench's encoding preference. Deselect the <uicontrol>Use
workbench default</uicontrol> check box to select another encoding.   <note>Encoding
detection (when loading files) is performed in the following order:   <ul>
<li>Locate the encoding name embedded in the document.</li>
<li>When no encoding is embedded in the document, an automatic encoding detector
attempts to determine encoding used in the document.</li>
<li>If the encoding still cannot be determined, the encoding defined in the <uicontrol>Encoding</uicontrol> field
is used.</li>
</ul> </note> </dd>
</dlentry></dl> </info></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> then <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to
save your changes.</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
