<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="twimpwar" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Importing Web archive (WAR) files</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>WAR files<indexterm>importing</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context> <p>A Web Archive (WAR) file is a portable, packaged Web application
that you can import into your workspace. </p><p> Before importing a WAR file,
you should first determine if the WAR file contains needed <tm tmclass="special"
tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> source
files. When importing a WAR file into an existing Web project, the imported
Web deployment descriptor files are either not changed or overwritten by the
ones included in the imported WAR file, based on your response to the prompt
that is provided.  In either case, this action does <i>not</i> represent a
merging of the two sets of deployment descriptors.  </p>  <p>To import the
Web project resources in a WAR file into your workspace, complete the following
steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Select <ph><menucascade><uicontrol>File</uicontrol><uicontrol>Import</uicontrol>
</menucascade></ph>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd> In the Import dialog, select <ph><uicontrol>WAR file</uicontrol></ph> and
then click <ph><uicontrol>Next</uicontrol></ph>. </cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Locate the WAR file that you want to import using the <ph><uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol></ph> button.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd> The wizard assumes you want to create a new Web project with the
same name as the WAR file. If you accept this choice, the project will be
created with the same servlet version as specified by the WAR file and in
the same location. If you want to override these settings, you can click <b>New</b> and
specify your new settings in the Dynamic Web Project wizard.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click <ph><uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol></ph> to populate the Web
project.</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linkpool type="concept"></linkpool>
</related-links>
</task>
