<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="tedtdoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Editing DOCTYPE declarations</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Editing DOCTYPE declarations</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The DOCTYPE declaration in an XML file is used at the beginning
of it to associate it with a DTD file. You can edit your DOCTYPE declaration
to change the DTD file your XML file is associated with.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DOCTYPE declarations<indexterm>XML editor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML editor<indexterm>DOCTYPE declarations</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource perspective,
but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To edit your DOCTYPE
declaration, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view of the XML editor, right-click <uicontrol>DOCTYPE</uicontrol> and
click <uicontrol>Edit DOCTYPE</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>The value in the <uicontrol>Root element name</uicontrol> field
should match the root element of your XML file exactly.</cmd><info>You should
only edit the value in this field if your root element changes.</info></step>
<step><cmd>You can select a Public ID for any existing XML Catalog entries
by clicking <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol>. </cmd><info>The value in the <uicontrol>Public
ID</uicontrol> field is the Public Identifier. It is used to associate the
XML file (using an XML Catalog entry) with a DTD file. For more information,
see <xref format="dita" href="txmlcat.dita" scope="local">Adding entries to
the XML Catalog</xref>.</info></step>
<step><cmd>The value in the <uicontrol>System ID</uicontrol> field is the
DTD the XML file is associated with. Type the path of the DTD file (or browse
for it) you want the XML file associated with in this field. </cmd><info> <note>When
the XML file is processed by the XML processor, it will first try to use the
Public ID to locate the DTD, and if this fails, it will use the System ID
to find it.</note></info></step>
<step><cmd>Click  <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<postreq>If you do not have a DOCTYPE declaration in your XML file, you can
right-click in the Design view and click <uicontrol>Add DTD Information</uicontrol> to
add one.</postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
