<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="txmlcat" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding entries to the XML Catalog</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Adding entries to the XML Catalog</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>XML Catalog entries are used to map external entity references
to locally defined resources. You can provide rules specify how these
entities are resolved</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML catalog<indexterm>adding entries</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>For details on the standard for XML Catalogs, see: <xref
href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/14809/xml-catalogs.html"
scope="external"></xref>.</p><p>For example: you are working on an
XML file on a computer and point its <codeph>schemaLocation</codeph> towards
a schema called <codeph>c:\MySchema.xsd</codeph>. If you do not use
an XML catalog, then when you finish editing the XML file and are
ready to publish it on the Web, you will need to edit <codeph>schemaLocation</codeph> so
that it points to a resource that is accessible on the Web.</p><p>To
avoid making frequent changes to your XML document, you can use the
XML Catalog: you could specify a rule that redirects an Internet resource
reference (for example,  <codeph>"http://www.ibm.com/published-schemas/MySchema.xsd"</codeph>)
so that it points to a resource on the local machine (for example,
 <codeph>"file:///C:/MySchema.xsd"</codeph>). Now, instead of frequently
editing XML documents to update the URIs or locations (especially
when there are many documents in your project), you only need to update
a single rule in your XML Catalog.</p><p>The following instructions
were written for the Resource perspective, but they will also work
in many other perspectives.</p><p>To add an entry to the XML Catalog,
follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Open the XML file that you want to associate with a DTD
or XML schema.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click  <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
</menucascade> and select <menucascade><uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>XML Catalog</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd><info>The  <uicontrol>XML
Catalog Entries</uicontrol> section contains a list of any user-defined
and plug-in defined catalog entries. Select any entry to see information
about it in the <uicontrol>Details</uicontrol> section.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> to create a new catalog
entry.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the left-hand column, click the type of catalog entry
that you want to add:</cmd>
<choicetable>
<chrow><choption>Catalog Entry</choption><chdesc>Used by an XML processor
when resolving entity references. You can provide rules to the catalog
to specify how entities should be resolved.<p>An XML Catalog entry
contains two parts:<ul>
<li>A key (which represents a DTD or XML schema)</li>
<li>A location (similar to a URI, which contains information about
a DTD or XML schema's location).</li>
</ul> You can place the Key in an XML file. When the XML processor
encounters it, it will use the XML Catalog entry to find the location
of the DTD or XML schema associated with the Key</p></chdesc></chrow>
<chrow><choption>Rewrite Entry</choption><chdesc>Used to redirect
a set of entities.</chdesc></chrow>
<chrow><choption>Suffix Entry</choption><chdesc>Used to match the
suffix of a URI or systemID.</chdesc></chrow>
<chrow><choption>Next Catalog</choption><chdesc>Used to refer to another
catalog without importing it into the workbench.</chdesc></chrow>
<chrow><choption>Delegate Catalog</choption><chdesc>Used to associate
an alternate catalog with an identifier.</chdesc></chrow>
</choicetable>
</step>
<step><cmd>Complete the fields for the catalog entry that you selected:</cmd>
<info><table><title> Cata<?Pub Caret?>log entry types and associated
fields</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Catalog type</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Fields</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry char="." colname="col1">Catalog Entry</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ul>
<li>In the <uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> field, enter or browse
for the location or URI of the DTD or XML schema file. This uses your
computer's path style to describe the location of the file. </li>
<li>Select a <uicontrol>Key Type</uicontrol>:<ul>
<li>If you specified a DTD: select <uicontrol>Public ID</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>System
ID</uicontrol>, or <uicontrol>URI</uicontrol> from the <uicontrol>Key
Type</uicontrol> field. If you select <uicontrol>Public ID,</uicontrol> the
value you enter in the <uicontrol>Key</uicontrol> field should be
the same as the Public ID in the XML file's DOCTYPE declaration. If
you select <uicontrol>System ID</uicontrol>, the value you enter should
correspond to the System ID in an XML file's DOCTYPE declaration.
If you select <uicontrol>URI</uicontrol>, the value you enter must
be a fully qualified URI.</li>
<li>If you specified an XML schema: select either <uicontrol>Namespace
Name</uicontrol> or  <uicontrol>Schema Location</uicontrol> from the <uicontrol>Key
Type</uicontrol> field. If the schema defines a target namespace,
it will automatically appear in the <uicontrol>Key</uicontrol> field.
Otherwise, you can enter the schema location in the <uicontrol>Key</uicontrol> field.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Select the <uicontrol>Specify alternative Web address</uicontrol> check
box if you want to be able to specify an alternate Web address for
the resource. <p>This Web address is used when an XML instance is
generated from this catalog entry.<note>This option is only available
if you select <uicontrol>Public ID</uicontrol> (for a DTD) or  <uicontrol>Namespace
Name</uicontrol> (for a schema) in the  <uicontrol>Key type</uicontrol> field.</note></p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry char="." colname="col1">Rewrite Entry</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ul>
<li>Select a <uicontrol>Key type to match</uicontrol>, either URI
or systemID.</li>
<li><uicontrol>Matching start string</uicontrol>: The matching prefix
to be removed from the supplied identifier.</li>
<li><uicontrol>Rewrite prefix</uicontrol>: The prefix is be used instead
of the prefix that is removed.</li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry char="." colname="col1">Suffix Entry</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ul>
<li>In the <uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> field, enter or browse
for the location or URI of the DTD or XML schema file. This uses your
computer's path style to describe the location of the file. </li>
<li>Select a <uicontrol>Key Type</uicontrol> (URI or systemID) to
match. </li>
<li>Type the <uicontrol>Suffix</uicontrol> of the identifier to match.</li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry char="." colname="col1">Next Catalog</entry>
<entry colname="col2">In the <uicontrol>Location of another XML Catalog
file</uicontrol> field, type or browse for the XML catalog you want
to refer to. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry char="." colname="col1">Delegate Catalog</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ul>
<li>Select a <uicontrol>Key type to match</uicontrol>, either URI
or systemID.</li>
<li><uicontrol>Matching start string</uicontrol>: The prefix of the
supplied identifier to match.</li>
<li><uicontrol>Delegate to this XML file</uicontrol>: The alternate
catalog to associate.</li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></info></step>
<step><cmd>When you are done creating catalog entries, click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to
close the Add XML Catalog Entry dialog. Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> again
to save your settings.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Make sure the XML file is in focus and click the <uicontrol>Reload
dependencies</uicontrol> toolbar button. </cmd></step>
</steps>
<result>The XML file is now associated with the latest version of
the XML schema or DTD.</result>
<postreq><p>You can also export and import XML Catalog information: </p><p>To
export, click <menucascade><uicontrol>File</uicontrol><uicontrol>Export</uicontrol>
</menucascade> and select <menucascade><uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>XML Catalog</uicontrol></menucascade>. You will be prompted
to select a project and provide a file name to store your catalog
entries in an .xmlcatalog file, which can be opened from the Navigator
view. Since your catalog entries are stored in an .xmlcatalog file,
you can check them in and out and share them like any other project
resource.</p><p>To import, click <menucascade><uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Import</uicontrol></menucascade> and select <menucascade>
<uicontrol>XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>XML Catalog</uicontrol>
</menucascade>. Then specify the file that will be used to load the
XML Catalog settings. When you import a .xmlcatalog file, any entries
in it will be loaded into the XML Catalog (and any existing entries
will be overwritten). </p></postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000009117?>
