<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"  "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cxmltool" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>XML tools - overview</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>XML tools - overview</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>This product provides a comprehensive visual XML development environment.
The tool set includes components for building DTDs, XML schemas, and XML files.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML tools<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The following XML tools are available. </p>
<p>The <b>XML editor</b> is a tool for creating and viewing XML files. You
can use it to create new XML files, either from scratch, existing DTDs, or
existing XML schemas. You can also use it to edit XML files, associate them
with DTDs or schemas, and validate them. </p>
<p> The <b>DTD editor</b> is a tool for creating and viewing DTDs.   </p>
<p>The <b>XML schema editor</b> is a tool for creating, viewing, and validating
XML schemas. You can use the XML schema editor to perform tasks such as creating
XML schema components and importing and viewing XML schemas. </p>
<p><b>Notes:</b></p>
<section>Exercise caution when opening large files with any of the XML editors.
If the memory limits of the workbench are exceeded, it will abruptly close
without saving any data (and without warning or error messages). The number
of elements in an XML file, not its size, is the best indicator of how much
memory will be required. Memory requirements also depend on what else is open
in the workbench - in some cases you can open a fifteen megabytes file, but
in other cases a one megabyte file might cause problems. Therefore, we recommend
you save all data in the workbench before opening large XML files. This is
a permanent restriction.</section>
<section conref="rlimitations_slushXML.dita#rlimitations_slushXML/unresolv_URI"></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002064?>
