<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<task id="tedtsch" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Editing namespace information</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Editing namespace information</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Your namespace information is used to provide various information
about the XML file, such as the XML schema and namespace it is associated
with. If desired, you can change the schema and namespace your XML
file is associated with or add a new association. Modifying any associations
can impact what content is allowed in the XML file.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML editor<indexterm>namespace information</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML files<indexterm>namespace information</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the Resource
perspective, but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To
edit your schema information, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>In the Design view of the XML editor, right-click your
root element and click <uicontrol>Edit Namespaces</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Your XML file can be associated with more than one namespace
or schema.</cmd><info>Select the entry you want to edit and click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>The value in the <uicontrol>Namespace Name</uicontrol> field
is a namespace the XML file is associated with.</cmd><info>Your XML
file should be associated with the same namespace(s) its XML schema
is associated with. For more information about namespaces, refer to
the related reference. For more information, see <xref
href="../../org.eclipse.wst.xsdeditor.doc.user/topics/rnmspc.dita"
scope="peer">XML namespaces</xref>.</info></step>
<step><cmd>All qualified elements and attributes in the XM<?Pub Caret?>L
file associated with the namespace will be prefixed with the <uicontrol>Prefix</uicontrol> value.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>The <uicontrol>Location Hint</uicontrol> field contains
the location of the XML schema the XML file is associated with.</cmd>
<info>An XML Catalog Key or a namespace name can be specified in this
field. Click <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> to view all XML schemas
in the workbench and XML Catalog.</info></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>, then click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> again.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p>If you want to create a new association, click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> instead
of <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>. You can then either select the <uicontrol>Specify
From Registered Namespace</uicontrol> radio button and select the
namespace declarations you want to add or select the <uicontrol>Specify
New Namespace</uicontrol> radio button and fill in the fields as necessary.</p></result>
<postreq>If you do not have namespace information in your XML file,
you can right-click your root element in the Design view and click <uicontrol>Edit
Namespaces</uicontrol> to add it. If you do not have a root element,
you must create one before you can add the namespace information.</postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003288?>
