<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="tspellch" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Spell checking XML files</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Spell checking your XML files</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can use the spell checker to check for misspelled words in
your XML file.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML editor<indexterm>spell checking files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML files<indexterm>spell checking</indexterm></indexterm></keywords><?Pub Caret1?>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The following instructions were written for the XML perspective,
but they will also work in many other perspectives.</p><p>To use the XML editor
spell checker, perform the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Open the file that you want to spell check in the XML editor.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Switch to the <b>Source</b> view.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click <menucascade><uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol><uicontrol> Spell
Check</uicontrol></menucascade> or click  <uicontrol>F7</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>The spell check dialog opens.</cmd><info>If you have no errors,
the dialog will contain the message <systemoutput>Spell check completed</systemoutput> and
nothing will be displayed in the <uicontrol>Misspelled word</uicontrol>field.
Otherwise, the first misspelling will be displayed in the <uicontrol>Misspelled
word</uicontrol> field.&nbsp;</info></step>
<step><cmd>You have the following options for dealing with the misspelled
word:  </cmd>
<choices>
<choice>Click <uicontrol>Ignore</uicontrol> to ignore the current instance
of the word or click <uicontrol>Ignore All</uicontrol> to ignore all instances
of the word in the current document.</choice>
<choice>Type a new spelling in the <uicontrol>Change to</uicontrol> field,
or select one of the suggested options. Click <uicontrol>Change</uicontrol> to
change the current instance of the word in the current document or click&nbsp; <uicontrol>Change
All</uicontrol> to change all instances of the word in the current document.</choice>
<choice>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> to add the currently selected spelling
to your user dictionary. This spelling will now be valid for all XML documents
you spell check in the XML editor.</choice>
<choice>Click  <uicontrol>Dictionary</uicontrol> to edit your user dictionary.
All words you have added to your user dictionary using the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> button
in the <b>Spell Check</b> dialog will be listed in the <uicontrol>Edit Dictionary</uicontrol> dialog.
To remove a word from your user dictionary, select it and click <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol>.
To add one, type it and click  <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>.</choice>
</choices>
</step>
<step><cmd>Repeat the same process for all potential misspellings identified.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Close</uicontrol> when the <systemoutput>Spell
check completed</systemoutput> message is displayed in the dialog. This will
return you to the active document, so that you can continue editing.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>To define dictionary preferences, use the Spell Check page in the
Preferences dialog (<menucascade><uicontrol>Windows</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Spell Check</uicontrol></menucascade>).</postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003456?>
