<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="ttaghilt" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Setting source highlighting styles</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Setting source highlighting styles</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>If desired, you can change various aspects of how the XML source
code is displayed in the Source view of the XML editor, such as the colors
the tags will be displayed in.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML editor<indexterm>setting source highlighting styles</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>To set highlighting styles for the XML code, follow these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Click <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Web and XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>XML Files</uicontrol><uicontrol> XML
Styles</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the <uicontrol>Content type</uicontrol> list, select the source
tag type that you wish to set a highlighting style for. You can also click
text in the sample text to specify the source tag type that you wish to set
a highlighting style for.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Foreground</uicontrol> box.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select the color that you want the text of the tag to appear in
and click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Background</uicontrol> box.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select the color that you want to appear behind the tag and click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Bold</uicontrol> check box if you want to
make the type bold.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>Restore Default</uicontrol> to set the highlighting
styles back to their default values. If you only want to reset the value for
a particular content type, select it in the <uicontrol>Content type </uicontrol> field,
the click the <uicontrol>Restore Default</uicontrol> button next to it. </cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save your changes.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<result></result>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002262?>
