<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2009, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="twcdast" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Using XML content assist</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Using XML content assist</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can use content assist to help you finish a tag or
line of code in the Source view of the XML editor. You can also use
content assist to insert templates into your XML code.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>XML editor<indexterm>content assist</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>XML files<indexterm>content assist</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>The placement of the cursor in your source file provides
the context for the content assist to offer suggestions for completion.</p><p>You
can launch content assist in either of the following ways:</p><ul>
<li>From the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> menu, click <uicontrol>Content
Assist</uicontrol>, or</li>
<li>Press Ctrl+Space</li>
</ul><p>In addition, you can set up an option that causes content
assist to pop up automatically when certain characters are typed.
To set up this option, click <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
<uicontrol> Preferences</uicontrol></menucascade> to open the Preferences
window, then select <menucascade><uicontrol>XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>XML
Files </uicontrol><uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol><uicontrol>Content
assist</uicontrol></menucascade> . Select the <uicontrol>Automatically
make suggestions</uicontrol> check box, and supply any additional
characters that should trigger content assist.</p><p>If your cursor
is in a position where content assist is available, a pop-up list
of available choices is displayed when you launch content assist.
The list is based on the context and whether a DTD or XML schema is
associated with the XML file being edited. For example, if you have
an Address element that can contain any of the following children
elements: Name, Street, City, Zip Code, Country, and Province, and
you place your cursor after any of them and launch content assist,
all of the child elements will be listed in the content assist list.</p><p>Content
assist cycling is available in the XML editor, offering multiple pages
of content assist. You can set preferences for the proposal categories
and the cycle order when repeatedly invoking content assist </p><?Pub
Caret 53?><p>The content assist list displays all valid tags for the
current cursor position, including templates. If your grammar constraints
are turned off, all available tags, not just valid ones, are displayed. </p><p>As
you type the first one or two letters of the tag that you want, the
list automatically refreshes with alphabetized choices that match
your input. Scroll down and select the tag that you want to use by
double-clicking on it.</p><note>The list only refreshes as described
if you first type <userinput>&lt;</userinput> before prompting for
content assist.</note></context>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003092?>
