<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="twmacro" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Working with XML templates</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>Working with XML templates</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>XML content assist provides a comment template, a section of predefined
code that you can insert into a file. You may find a template useful when
you have a certain piece of code you want to reuse several times, and you
do not want to write it out every time.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="twmacro|1|XMLtemplatesworkingwithpredefinedcode"
status="changed">templates<indexterm>working with predefined XML code</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm keyref="twmacro|10|XMLfilestemplates" status="new">XML
files<indexterm>templates</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><p>You can use a default template as provided, customize that template,
or create your own templates.</p><p>For example, you can work on a group of
XML pages that should all contain a table with a specific appearance. Create
a template that contains the tags for that table, including the appropriate
attributes and attribute values for each tag. (You can copy and paste the
tags from a structured text editor into the template's <uicontrol>Pattern</uicontrol> field.)
Then select the name of the template from a content assist proposal list whenever
you want to insert your custom table into an XML file.</p><p>To create a new
XML template, complete the following steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Click <menucascade><uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
</menucascade> and select <menucascade><uicontrol>XML</uicontrol><uicontrol>XML
Files</uicontrol><uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> if you want to create a completely
new template.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Supply a new template <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Specify the <uicontrol>Context</uicontrol> for the template.</cmd>
<info>This is the context in which the template is available in the proposal
list when content assist is requested. </info></step>
<step><cmd>Specify the <uicontrol>Pattern</uicontrol> for your template using
the appropriate tags, attributes, or attribute values to be inserted by content
assist.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>If you want to insert a variable, click the <uicontrol>Insert Variable</uicontrol> button
and select the variable to be inserted. </cmd><info>For example, the <b>date</b> variable
indicates the current date will be inserted. </info></step>
<step><cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> and then <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to
save your changes.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<postreq>You can edit, remove, import, or export a template by using the same
preferences page. If you have modified a default template, you can restore
it to its default value. You can also restore a removed template if you have
not exited from the workbench since it was removed. <p>If you have a template
that you do not want to remove but you no longer want it to appear in the
content assist list, clear its check box in the table on the Templates preferences
page.</p></postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
