<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "..\dtd\task.dtd">
<task id="tsrcedt023" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Enabling content assist for JSP files</title>
<shortdesc>Having the proper files defined in the <tm tmclass="special" tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> build class path is essential for content
assist to work properly in JSP files. It is also essential for the links builder
to be able to correctly resolve links to servlets or <tm tmclass="special"
tmowner="Sun Microsystems, Inc." tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm> beans
in JSP and HTML files.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>content assistance<indexterm>enabling for JSP files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>JSP files<indexterm>enabling content assistance</indexterm></indexterm>


</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context>To enable content assist for JSP files:</context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>To determine whether the build path is correct, select <uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol> from
the project's pop-up menu. </cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Select <uicontrol>Java Build Path</uicontrol>, and then the <uicontrol>Libraries</uicontrol> page. </cmd>
<info>You should see the following files:<ul>
<li>j2ee.jar</li>
<li>rt.jar </li>
<li>servlet.jar</li>
<li>webcontainer.jar</li>
</ul></info></step>
<step><cmd>If they are not present, add them as External JAR files. You may
have your own versions of these files, depending on the level of JDK or Servlet
API for which you are developing.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>If your Web applications reference other JARs, you can place them
in the build path as follows:</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep><cmd>Use the <uicontrol>Add JARs</uicontrol> button on the Library
page. You must ensure that the JAR file is available to the server by properly
configuring the server.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>Add the JARs to the <filepath>WEB-INF/lib</filepath> directory.
They will be automatically added to the build path and deployed to the server
in as part of the project WAR.</cmd></substep>
</substeps>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linkpool type="concept">
<link href="csrcedt006.dita"><linktext>Content assist</linktext></link>
<link href="csrcedt004.dita"><linktext>Structured text editors for markup
languages</linktext></link>
</linkpool>
<linkpool type="task">
<link href="tsrcedt005.dita"><linktext>Getting content assistance in structured
text editors</linktext></link>
<link href="tsrcedt028.dita"><linktext>Adding and removing JSP templates</linktext>
</link>
<link href="tsrcedt000.dita"><linktext>Editing text coded in markup languages
- overview</linktext></link>
</linkpool>
</related-links>
</task>
