<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "..\dtd\task.dtd">
<task id="tsrcedt010" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Checking spelling</title>
<shortdesc>This documentation describes how to check spelling in a structured
text editor.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>spell check<indexterm>structured text editors</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>structured text editors<indexterm>spell check</indexterm></indexterm>



</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context> <p>The structured text editors for markup languages (accessed from
the Project Explorer's pop-up menu or by clicking the Source tab in certain
editors) provide a spell checking feature.</p><p>To check spelling in an HTML,
XML, or other file that uses a structured markup language:</p> </context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>(Optional) To select the dictionary that will be used, click <menucascade>
<uicontrol>Window</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol><uicontrol>Spell
Check</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Open in a  structured text editor the file whose spelling you want
to check.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Start the spelling checker by clicking <menucascade><uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Spell Check</uicontrol></menucascade>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Type a new spelling into the <uicontrol>Change to</uicontrol> field,
or select one of the available options. Click the <uicontrol>Change</uicontrol> button
to change the current instance of the word in the current document. Click
the <uicontrol>Change All</uicontrol> button to change all instances of the
word in the current document. You can also click the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> button
to add the currently selected spelling to your dictionary.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Use the controls in the Spell Check dialog box to ignore, change,
or add terms to the current dictionary. (To remove a word after it has been
added to the dictionary, click the <uicontrol>Dictionary</uicontrol> push
button.)</cmd></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<linkpool type="concept">
<link href="csrcedt004.dita"><linktext>Structured text editors for markup
languages</linktext></link>
</linkpool>
<linkpool type="task">
<link href="tsrcedt000.dita"><linktext>Editing text coded in markup languages
- overview</linktext></link>
</linkpool>
</related-links>
</task>
